Q1: If you have a demo, what's the url? Demo can be anything that shows us how the product works. Usually that's a video or screen recording.

Q2: Describe what your company does in 50 characters or less.

Q3: What is your company going to make? Please describe your product and what it does or will do.

Q4: Where do you live now, and where would the company be based after YC?

Q5: Please enter the url of a 1 minute unlisted (not private) YouTube video introducing the founder(s). This video is an important part of the application. (Follow the Video Guidelines.)

Q6: Please tell us about an interesting project, preferably outside of class or work, that two or more of you created together. Include urls if possible.

Q7: How long have the founders known one another and how did you meet? Have any of the founders not met in person?

Q8: Which category best applies to your company?

Q9: How far along are you?

Q10: How long have each of you been working on this? How much of that has been full-time? Please explain.

Q11: Are people using your product?

Q12: When will you have a prototype or beta?

Q13: How many active users or customers do you have? If you have some particularly valuable customers, who are they? If you're building hardware, how many units have you shipped?

Q14: Do you have revenue?

Q15: We're interested in your revenue over the last several months. (Not cumulative and not GMV).

Q16: Anything else you would like us to know regarding your revenue or growth rate?

Q17: If you are applying with the same idea as a previous batch, did anything change? If you applied with a different idea, why did you pivot and what did you learn from the last idea?

Q18: If you have already participated or committed to participate in an incubator, "accelerator" or "pre-accelerator" program, please tell us about it.

Q19: Why did you pick this idea to work on? Do you have domain expertise in this area? How do you know people need what you're making?

Q20: What's new about what you're making? What substitutes do people resort to because it doesn't exist yet (or they don't know about it)?

Q21: Who are your competitors, and who might become competitors? Who do you fear most?

Q22: What do you understand about your business that other companies in it just don't get?

Q23: How do or will you make money? How much could you make?

Q24: How will you get users? If your idea is the type that faces a chicken-and-egg problem in the sense that it won't be attractive to users till it has a lot of users (e.g. a marketplace, a dating site, an ad network), how will you overcome that?

Q25: Have you formed ANY legal entity yet?

Q26: Please list all legal entities you have and in what state or country each was formed (e.g. Delaware C Corp, Mexican SAPI, Singapore Pvt Ltd, etc.).

Q27: Please describe the breakdown of the equity ownership in percentages among the founders, employees and any other stockholders. If there are multiple founders, be sure to give the equity ownership of each founder.

Q28: If you have not formed the company yet, describe the planned equity ownership breakdown among the founders, employees and any other proposed stockholders. If there are multiple founders, be sure to give the proposed equity ownership of each founder.

Q29: Have you taken any investment yet?

Q30: List any investments your company has received. Include the name of the investor, the amount invested, the premoney valuation / valuation cap, and the type of security sold (convertible notes, safes or stock).

Q31: How much money do you spend per month?

Q32: How much money does your company have in the bank now?

Q33: How long is your runway?

Q34: Please provide any other relevant information about the structure or formation of the company.

Q35: Are any of the founders covered by noncompetes or intellectual property agreements that overlap with your project? If so, please explain.

Q36: Who writes code, or does other technical work on your product? Was any of it done by a non-founder? Please explain.

Q37: Is there anything else we should know about your company?

Q38: If you had any other ideas you considered applying with, please list them. One may be something we've been waiting for. Often when we fund people it's to do something they list here and not in the main application.

Q39: Please tell us something surprising or amusing that one of you has discovered.

Q40: What convinced you to apply to Y Combinator? Did someone encourage you to apply?

Q41: How did you hear about Y Combinator?